The cost leader strategy involves
growing in market share by having
the lowest selling price in
the market.
But we must bear in mind that
this is possible.
That is, the cost leader has the
possibility to go out to the market
at the lowest price, but it doesn’
t have to be so.
You can choose to have the same
price as your competitors, but
get more margins or invest more
in marketing.
Therefore not necessarily.
The search for differentiation implies
that your customers choose you for being
better at something.
Your customers are willing
to pay a higher price.
They usually require more
investment.
Yes, usually to be better what
you have to do is invest
more than others.
They usually bring more investment.
Those three options are
correct.
Porter’s generic strategy
matrix consists of two axes.
One of the axes is the competitive advantage.
There is no choice between differentiation
or cost leadership.
And the other axis is the scope,
depending on how much we target
the entire market, a specific segment.
Rentability is usually higher
when your competitive advantage
is based on what?
Leadership in cost or differentiation.
If you choose to differentiate,
the profitability
will be higher.
Keep in mind that cost leadership
usually forces you to tighten
the margins and it is also that
customers choose you for being,
usually for being cheaper.
Competitive struggle in markets
where almost all competitors
have opted for cost leadership,
what is usually greater or
lesser?
The competitive struggle is greater.
Keep in mind that customers
basically choose what they are
choosing usually by price, so
the competition is more
fierce, there is greater price war.
Scale economies are necessary
for companies looking for differentiation
or cost leadership.
Cost leadership is often very
much matched with scale economies,
because to be the cost leader
in your sector, to have
the cost structure,
scale economies are size
allow you to go down
unit costs.
Scale economy always comes well,
it’s always positive, but it’
s really much more necessary
when you choose to be the cost
leader.
Customer loyalty is greater or
lesser when you choose cost leadership,
because it is less, it is that
they choose you, often they choose
you by price, so as one that
has a lower price arrives,
it will change.
In premium segments, the competitive warfare
that is greater or lesser, since it is
smaller, is the opposite case
of the previous one.
Having a recognized brand
contributes positively to the
competitive advantage
by differentiation or by cost
leadership, since the brand
contributes mainly to differentiation.
In a market of raw materials
producers it is more common
to choose differentiation or
cost leadership.
The commodity markets are
often very commoditized
markets, the proposals are
very indifferent, so customers
tend to choose the supplier
mainly based on the
price and this forces all
producers or all suppliers
to have or almost be
forced to seek cost
leadership.
The determining factor that helped Zappos
generate a competitive advantage,
what was it?
The customer service.
Let’s think, the following factors
contribute to generating a competitive
advantage by differentiation,
but there is one of them that
is incorrect, right?
The brand contributes to creating
greater value, customer service
too, operations efficiency
not, operations efficiency
to what helps you is to reduce
your cost structure, convenience
is a greater value and
human capital is also
generator of greater
value, so the wrong response
is operations efficiency.
Being a cost leader allows
you to earn quotas by reducing
prices, yes, you can put the
lower prices and win the
quota, get higher returns than
your direct competitors, also
having the lower cost structure
of your sector allows you
to get higher returns, also
allows you to set a lower or
similar price to your competitors,
you have that strength and
reinvest more strongly
in marketing if you want,
so all the above are correct.
One of the key factors that has
helped McDonald's to be a cost
leader is to have a world-
renowned brand, well, it is clear
that McDonald's has a world-
renowned brand, but this
is not the determining factor
of being a cost leader, paying
employees that the competition
has no reason to be so or standardizing
all of all processes worldwide,
well, because this is a factor
that directly contributes
to being the cost leader, McDonald's
thanks to the huge economy
of scale and to the huge
standardization allows
you to have a lower cost
structure than the rest
of its competitors.
How did Mercadona reduce
its costs to meet the proposal
of always low
prices?
Paying employees less?
No, in fact in many cases it has
salaries higher than its
competitors, reducing the
variety of brands and therefore
the number of suppliers, this
is one of the strategic
moves they made.
They went from offering a number
of brands to offering many fewer
and that allowed them to have more
power over the suppliers of those
brands and integrating with some
of their suppliers inter-
suppliers then too.
The answer is and is
correct.
A segmentation or niche strategy
is only justified if the fact
of focusing on a smaller
market than your competitors
allows you.
Why am I saying only?
Because if you don’t have any
advantage over competitors
that target the entire market,
you’re actually at a competitive
disadvantage because you’re
a smaller company.
So what is the advantage or what
is the justification?
Well, because it allows you
to know them much better as you
are sitting in a smaller segment
and better adapt to their needs.
What is the main competitive
advantage of Tinder, the world’
s leading dating app?
Which is?
Being a cost leader, differentiating
by having better technology or
the network effect that is generated
by connecting more users than
no one else in the world can.
The competitive advantage is the
network effect.
We are looking for a
specialized shop for wine.
It is a local store.
So, it’s already clear that it
competes in a niche segmentation
strategy.
And we have to choose between that
it is cost-specialized segmentation
or that it is differentiation-
specialized segmentation.
Usually specialized stores,
such as a wine store, do not
usually compete in cost
leadership.
What they usually have more is
a higher value proposal,
more advisory services, etc.
Therefore, you are choosing a specialized
segmentation in differentiation.
It is bringing more value than its
competitors, but focused on just
one niche.
This is a niche by geographical
segmentation.
Decathlon what is it?
Leadership in cost, differentiation
and segmentation.
Decathlon is clearly cost
leadership.
It is aimed at the entire market,
the entire sports sector, and
seeks competitive advantage by
having a lower cost structure
than the rest of competitors.
This restaurant we see here in the menu
of the day, 13 euros, in what competition?
Cost leadership, differentiation or
segmentation in differentiation or
segmentation specialized in
cost leadership.
The first thing we have to be clear
is that it competes in segmentation,
it is a local restaurant.
And what does it?
By differentiation, which would
be a luxury restaurant,
or by cost leadership.
What is clearly trying to
attract the public is a lower
cost and probably has adapted
its structure to
those prices.
Therefore, you are looking for
specialized segmentation in
cost leadership.
Now let’s look at what the variable
or segmentation criterion is.
That is, why is this restaurant,
when we say it opts for a
segmentation strategy,
what is that segmentation based on?
If we compare it with competitors
that know that they are aimed at the
entire market.
Are you specializing in a particular
product?
No to.
Is this a geographical specialization
or has it specialized in a
specific customer profile?
Well, since it is a restaurant, the
specialization or segmentation in
this case is geographical.